README.md, before:

# gongsho

An NPM library to add AI CodeGen to your typescript project. Simply install `npm i gongsho` then run the start command to open the gongsho web interface. It reads your project files and allows you to have a conversation with the LLM to generate code.

Gongsho currently uses Claude 3.5 Sonnet, you'll need an Anthropic API key to use it.

## See a live Demo

[Live Demo on Youtube](https://youtu.be/ik5KnsCCmqE?si=kisDRSGncqGrv2-m)

[![Gongsho UI](docs/conversation-page_thumb.png)](docs/conversation-page.png)

- [Install and Run](#install-and-run)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [TODOs](#todos)
- [Developers Readme](docs/DEVELOPERS.md) :link:
- [Longer Term Plan](docs/PLAN.md) :link:

## Install and Run

You can either install gongsho in a project or globally

```bash
# install in a project
npm install gongsho@latest  --save-dev

# install globally
npm install -g gongsho@latest
```

You'll need to get an [Anthropic API key](https://console.anthropic.com/settings/keys) and pass it to gongsho.

```bash
# If you have an ANTHROPIC_API_KEY env variable in your bash profile.
npx gongsho anthropic-api-key=$ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
```

## Configuration

The following options are available to configure gongsho:

- **ANTHROPIC_API_KEY** (required) get your key from [Anthropic](https://console.anthropic.com/settings/keys)
- **PORT** (optional) default is 3030
- **MAX_FILES** (optional) You'll get a warning if your project has more files than this. Default is 800.
- **PROJECT_PATH** (optional) The path to the project root. Default is the current working directory.

You can either pass them in as **flags** or as an **`.env`** file.

Pass as flags example:

```bash
npx gongsho --anthropic-api-key=$ANTHROPIC_API_KEY --port=3030
```

Point to an `.env` file:

```bash
npx gongsho --env-file=.env.gongsho
```

```bash
# .env.gongsho
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-api03-Iw....
PORT=3030
MAX_FILES=800
```

### .gongshoignore

When you have many files in a project you can create a `.gongshoignore` file to exclude files from the conversation. This will greatly improve performance. When you don't create a custom `.gongshoignore` file, gongsho will use the `.gitignore` file. There are additional some _sensible defaults_ that will always be ignored.

## TODOs

- MVP for v0.1.0

  - [x] NX project with Angular and NestJS
  - [x] Point to real project instead of projects directory
  - [x] Build NPM package
  - [x] Show tokens used and cost estimate

- LLM

  - [x] Make initial prompt asking if codebase explanation is required
  - [x] Make interstitial
  - [x] Pass full text of files to LLM if explanation is required
  - [x] Save/Load conversation to/from file
  - [ ] increase performance on large projects

- UI

  - [ ] Sticky top nav with button "New Conversation",
  - [ ] UI to see your history : "View Conversations"
  - [ ] Fix the apply button - for errors and for clearing
  - [ ] Add diff viewer of changes
  - [ ] Add ability to add files manually to the conversation
  - [x] Allow switching between agents
  - [x] Add apply button to apply changes to the project
  - [x] event stream
  - [ ] event fragments

- Server

  - [x] Add getConversations endpoint
  - [x] Add getConversation endpoint
  - [x] Add createConversation endpoint
  - [x] Add addUserInput endpoint
  - [x] Add stream conversation endpoint (SSE/ws)
  - [x] Add getChanges to a conversation
  - [ ] Add getFiles endpoint
  - [ ] Improve logging

- Assistant TODOs

  - [x] Build a prompt for Claude to understand the project folder and the user's objective
  - [x] Take claude's response and apply it to the project folder
  - [x] Add basic RepoMap with simple list of files
  - [x] Add aider like prompts to gongsho
  - [x] Implement RepoMap similar to [Aider Repo-Map](https://github.com/jxnl/aider/blob/main/aider/repo_map.py)
  - [ ] Research Tree-Splitter to give more context to LLM
  - [ ] Research Token size limits for user input and repo-maps
  - [ ] Optimize changelog generation
  - [ ] Research converting to [Vercel AI SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ai)

- Features Ideas

  - [ ] Browse the codebase
  - [ ] Highlight code snippet and explain it
  - [ ] Highlight code snippet and ask for a change
  - [ ] Add "Explain My Project" feature
  - [ ] Add "Rules" feature for the AI to follow
  - [ ] Facilitate update with UI notification to update gongsho [Gong Update Feed](https://registry.npmjs.org/-/package/gongsho/dist-tags) + [Compare Versions](https://www.npmjs.com/package/compare-versions)

- Bugs

  - [x] Add new file creation, during conversation
  - [ ] Agent dropdown on textarea not hooked in, make textarea only clear when successfully applied
  - [ ] Theres an extra conversations load `http://localhost:4200/api/conversations/` on the conversation details page
  - [ ] Handle conversation start when server has an error, better handling of clearing text area.
  - [ ] Deal with Agent errors better
  - [ ] When the LLM Agent gives an error, the UI has already cleared the text area too early.

- Backlog
  - [ ] Better way to handle titles of created conversations.
  - [ ] Upgrade nestjs to latest (**Note:** We had to install an old version of `@nestjs/serve-static@10.4.15` due to NX compatibility).

Commit message:

feat: streams conversation text to the ui (#8)
* switched to vercel ai package

Removed Anthropic sdk and updated package.json with latest dependencies

* added fragments to claude agent

Added fragments with IDs and added requestIds from Anthropic.

* sending fragments to the UI

* moved assistant dialog info to new component

* ui shows stream of assistant content

Currently only block by block, will attempt to make it appear as the text is writing out.

* partially complete text blocks stream in the UI

* updated dialog and added readme items

README.md, after:

# gongsho

An NPM library to add AI CodeGen to your typescript project. Simply install `npm i gongsho` then run the start command to open the gongsho web interface. It reads your project files and allows you to have a conversation with the LLM to generate code.

Gongsho currently uses Claude 3.5 Sonnet, you'll need an Anthropic API key to use it.

## See a live Demo

[Live Demo on Youtube](https://youtu.be/ik5KnsCCmqE?si=kisDRSGncqGrv2-m)

[![Gongsho UI](docs/conversation-page_thumb.png)](docs/conversation-page.png)

- [Install and Run](#install-and-run)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [TODOs](#todos)
- [Developers Readme](docs/DEVELOPERS.md) :link:
- [Longer Term Plan](docs/PLAN.md) :link:

## Install and Run

You can either install gongsho in a project or globally

```bash
# install in a project
npm install gongsho@latest  --save-dev

# install globally
npm install -g gongsho@latest
```

You'll need to get an [Anthropic API key](https://console.anthropic.com/settings/keys) and pass it to gongsho.

```bash
# If you have an ANTHROPIC_API_KEY env variable in your bash profile.
npx gongsho anthropic-api-key=$ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
```

## Configuration

The following options are available to configure gongsho:

- **ANTHROPIC_API_KEY** (required) get your key from [Anthropic](https://console.anthropic.com/settings/keys)
- **PORT** (optional) default is 3030
- **MAX_FILES** (optional) You'll get a warning if your project has more files than this. Default is 800.
- **PROJECT_PATH** (optional) The path to the project root. Default is the current working directory.

You can either pass them in as **flags** or as an **`.env`** file.

Pass as flags example:

```bash
npx gongsho --anthropic-api-key=$ANTHROPIC_API_KEY --port=3030
```

Point to an `.env` file:

```bash
npx gongsho --env-file=.env.gongsho
```

```bash
# .env.gongsho
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-api03-Iw....
PORT=3030
MAX_FILES=800
```

### .gongshoignore

When you have many files in a project you can create a `.gongshoignore` file to exclude files from the conversation. This will greatly improve performance. When you don't create a custom `.gongshoignore` file, gongsho will use the `.gitignore` file. There are additional some _sensible defaults_ that will always be ignored.

## TODOs

- MVP for v0.1.0

  - [x] NX project with Angular and NestJS
  - [x] Point to real project instead of projects directory
  - [x] Build NPM package
  - [x] Show tokens used and cost estimate

- LLM

  - [x] Make initial prompt asking if codebase explanation is required
  - [x] Make interstitial
  - [x] Pass full text of files to LLM if explanation is required
  - [x] Save/Load conversation to/from file
  - [ ] increase performance on large projects
  - [ ] refine prompts with examples from [Anthropic Code in NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@anthropic-ai/claude-code). [Prompts gist](https://gist.github.com/vincentschroeder/b64fb2705b8442e189b944275198d1f8)

- UI

  - [ ] Sticky top nav with button "New Conversation",
  - [ ] UI to see your history : "View Conversations"
  - [ ] Fix the apply button - for errors and for clearing
  - [ ] Add diff viewer of changes
  - [ ] Add ability to add files manually to the conversation
  - [x] Allow switching between agents
  - [x] Add apply button to apply changes to the project
  - [x] event stream
  - [x] event fragments for text
  - [ ] event fragments for code blocks

- Server

  - [x] Add getConversations endpoint
  - [x] Add getConversation endpoint
  - [x] Add createConversation endpoint
  - [x] Add addUserInput endpoint
  - [x] Add stream conversation endpoint (SSE/ws)
  - [x] Add getChanges to a conversation
  - [ ] Add getFiles endpoint
  - [ ] Improve logging

- Assistant TODOs

  - [x] Build a prompt for Claude to understand the project folder and the user's objective
  - [x] Take claude's response and apply it to the project folder
  - [x] Add basic RepoMap with simple list of files
  - [x] Add aider like prompts to gongsho
  - [x] Implement RepoMap similar to [Aider Repo-Map](https://github.com/jxnl/aider/blob/main/aider/repo_map.py)
  - [ ] Optimize changelog generation
  - [ ] Add prompt caching, [Vercel](https://sdk.vercel.ai/providers/ai-sdk-providers/anthropic#cache-control), [Anthropic](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/build-with-claude/prompt-caching)
  - [ ] Research Tree-Splitter to give more context to LLM
  - [ ] Research Token size limits for user input and repo-maps
  - [x] convert to [Vercel AI SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ai)
  - [ ] Research [LangGraph](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langgraph) multi-agent workflows
  - [ ] Deal with finishReason better

- Features Ideas

  - [ ] Browse the codebase
  - [ ] Highlight code snippet and explain it
  - [ ] Highlight code snippet and ask for a change
  - [ ] Add "Explain My Project" feature
  - [ ] Add "Rules" feature for the AI to follow
  - [ ] Facilitate update with UI notification to update gongsho [Gong Update Feed](https://registry.npmjs.org/-/package/gongsho/dist-tags) + [Compare Versions](https://www.npmjs.com/package/compare-versions)

- Bugs

  - [x] Add new file creation, during conversation
  - [x] Agent dropdown on textarea not hooked in, make textarea only clear when successfully applied
  - [ ] Theres an extra conversations load `http://localhost:4200/api/conversations/` on the conversation details page
  - [ ] Handle conversation start when server has an error, better handling of clearing text area.
  - [ ] Deal with Agent errors better
  - [ ] When the LLM Agent gives an error, the UI has already cleared the text area too early.
  - [ ] Fix the error on SSE completion from our SSE dependency: [ngx-sse-client](https://github.com/marcospds/ngx-sse-client/issues/6)

- Backlog
  - [ ] Better way to handle titles of created conversations.
  - [ ] Upgrade nestjs to latest (**Note:** We had to install an old version of `@nestjs/serve-static@10.4.15` due to NX compatibility).
